Okay, let's talk about methods.
So we saw these earlier
with the inner method.
And then now we're going to talk
about how to actually make your own.
So let's say we've got
our color enum here, and
I want to introduce a method to it.
Here's how I can do that.
First I use the impl keyword which
is short for implementation, and
I'm going to say impl color.
Inside that I'm going
to define a function.
So here I've decided to
name my function rgb,
rgb is going to take a color and
return a tuple of three u8s.
And then I'm also going to make another
function called new which is going to take
a red green and a blue and
then return a color.
And you can kind of guess what
the implementations of these might be.
The rgb one is gonna do a match
on our color and say if it's red,
then return you know,
the rgb is associated with red.
If it's yellow to it for yellow,
if it's green to green, if it's custom,
probably just returning the red, green or
blue that it's gotten the custom value.
And likewise with new, it's probably
going to look at the red, green and blue.
And decide either to turn it into
a red variant, a yellow variant,
a green variant or a custom as a fallback
if it can't find any, any good matches.
Okay, so let's say we want
to define a new color, and
we say let red = Color : : new 250, 0,
0, and let purple is color new 100,
0, 50, and let r, g,
b = Color : : rgb purple.
So what's happening here,
is that we've essentially used
that same names pacing concept
that we did with the variants,
except now it's applied to
the actual color enum itself.
So this is in terms of like
what the functions are doing.
This is not changing anything.
This is just the plain old function.
It's just got a namespace now.
It's inside this color namespace,
which means I call it by saying
color colon colon in front of it.
So similarly to how with variants,
this is a way to have multiple variants
in the same scope that are named red.
Now I can have multiple functions in
the same scope that are names new,
I can just namespace them.
According to maybe this is color : : new,
but maybe I'd have something else,
it's either an enum.
You can also do this with structs that
would say, you know, user colon colon new.
You can imagine the name new kind of tends
to come up a lot when you're building data
structures.
And similarly with the rgb function here.
So, this is a way that you can
use impl to namespace things.
Now, there's an additional thing that
you can do with this namespacing,
which is what we get into methods.
So let's once again say
we have impl color, and
this time we're going to say
function rgb parentheses self.
So previously we were saying color colon
color, but here we're just saying self.
And in an unusual step, we're actually
not defining a type for this,
which is the first time
we've ever seen that.
And here we have new,
again the same as before,
except instead of returning a color,
it's returning self with a capital S.
So what's going on here?
Basically, this code will work
exactly the same way as before,
because self with the lowercase s and
self with the capital S
are special values in rust and
they're only used inside of an impulse.
And what they mean as you may have guessed
is self refers to basically give me
one of these, one of these particular
types whatever your your impl is on.
And self with a capital S refers to
that type, whatever the impl is on.
So self is basically saying you can
imagine it saying self colon color,
because it's saying it's automatically
going to be whatever that type is.
And this thing is just
the same thing as color.
Now the cool thing that this lets you do
is this right here that we've seen at
the end here.
Basically, rather than
calling Color::rgb(purple),
now I can say purple.rgb.
And all this is doing is just calling the
same function passing the same argument.
It's just a different
way of expressing it.
So this is what's known as method syntax.
This is where we are calling the purple
method inside the color impl.
Sorry, we're calling the rgb
method inside the purples impl.
So purple is a color,
which means that it has this rgb method.
And basically a method is anything
to take self as an argument.
So similarly to Python you
might be familiar with.
This is not really doing anything
more complicated than syntax sugar.
Both of these two do
exactly the same thing.
They have the same performance.
Then they compile about the same amount
of speed, so it's just a matter of style.
Do I want to call it in this style or
do we want to call it this way?
Which is both slightly more concise and
also more amenable to chaining.
So I can say purple.rgb dot
something else, dot something else.
If you know, this returns
something that also has a method,
which also returns something else that
has a method and so on and so forth.
So this is mostly just
a syntactic convenience.
The way we're using it here,
there's nothing really anything
particularly fancier going on there.
Somebody asked about traits earlier self
can do a little bit fancier stuff when you
get to traits, but we're not gonna cover
those in this introductory course.
But because it's generally speaking
strictly more useful than writing out
like color colon color.
Typically speaking, whenever you're
inside an input block like this.
You'll tend to see self and capital S self
used in positions like this rather than
using the actual color type directly.